README.md, before:

# ENVS-193DS_spring-2025_final
Final exam for Data Science in Environmental Studies (ENVS193DS) - Spring 2025 


### General Information 




### Packages 

```

library(tidyverse) # general use 

library(gt) # for summary table

library(janitor) # cleaning data frames 

library(here) # file organization 

library(readxl) # reading excel files 

library(dplyr) # enables dataframe manipulation

library(tidyr) # help organize data

library(fs) # allows you to make a tree of the data structure

```

### Data and File Information 

**Problem 1** uses examples from the paper:

Saleh, D., & Joseph D. (2021). Concentrations, Loads, and Associated Trends of Nutrients Entering the Sacramento–San Joaquin Delta, California. *San Francisco Estuary and Watershed Science.* 10.15447/sfews.2021v19iss4art6.

**Problem 2** uses the dataset:

Kui, L. (2024). Daily sea surface temperature in Santa Barbara channel between 1982 and 2023 ver 3 [Dataset]. *Environmental Data Initiative.* https://doi.org/10.6073/pasta/e930954949b2635928b8be6824630f84.

**Problem 3** uses the dataset:

Stojanovic, Dejan et al. (2021). Do nest boxes breed the target species or its competitors? A case study of a critically endangered bird [Dataset]. *Dryad.* https://doi.org/10.5061/dryad.83bk3j9sb


File Structure: 

```



```


### Rendered Output 
The rendered output is [here](https://ethan-mathews24.github.io/ENVS-193DS_spring-2025_final/code/ENVS-193DS_spring-2025_final.html)

Commit message:

selecting the best model based on AIC

README.md, after:

# ENVS-193DS_spring-2025_final
Final exam for Data Science in Environmental Studies (ENVS193DS) - Spring 2025 


### General Information 




### Packages 

```

library(tidyverse) # general use 

library(gt) # for summary table

library(janitor) # cleaning data frames 

library(here) # file organization 

library(readxl) # reading excel files 

library(MuMIn) # model selection

library(DHARMa) # to check diagnostics from the model

library(fs) # allows you to make a tree of the data structure

```

### Data and File Information 

**Problem 1** uses examples from the paper:

Saleh, D., & Joseph D. (2021). Concentrations, Loads, and Associated Trends of Nutrients Entering the Sacramento–San Joaquin Delta, California. *San Francisco Estuary and Watershed Science.* 10.15447/sfews.2021v19iss4art6.

**Problem 2** uses the dataset:

Kui, L. (2024). Daily sea surface temperature in Santa Barbara channel between 1982 and 2023 ver 3 [Dataset]. *Environmental Data Initiative.* https://doi.org/10.6073/pasta/e930954949b2635928b8be6824630f84.

**Problem 3** uses the dataset:

Stojanovic, Dejan et al. (2021). Do nest boxes breed the target species or its competitors? A case study of a critically endangered bird [Dataset]. *Dryad.* https://doi.org/10.5061/dryad.83bk3j9sb


File Structure: 

```



```


### Rendered Output 
The rendered output is [here](https://ethan-mathews24.github.io/ENVS-193DS_spring-2025_final/code/ENVS-193DS_spring-2025_final.html)
